
Athletes are always in danger of suffering many physical injuries that can effect them in their near future. Other potential risk can include psychological traumas or mental disorders. This can sometimes be troubling since a great number of youth idealize and try to follow in the footsteps of many famous athletes. If not guided and informed correctly these young athletes are at the possible risk of developing long term effects that could negatively impact their future lives and careers. This research paper will analyze whether the athleticism being taught at Desert Mirage High School has negatively impacted the athletes at this school. Students need to be aware of the possible dangers in-order to decide whether they want to do something that can potentially affect them for the rest of their life. Questions like are athletes being trained properly in-order to avoid such injuries have to be asked? If so, what kind of changes can be considered and implemented in-order to improve the life’s of these athletes?
	 . While many may say that it’s just part of the sport, its ignorant to think that there will be no serious long term consequences to their physical and mental health. Not every sport is the same and one can me more dangerous than the other. For example, football can be very risky since about every part of the participating athlete’s body gets impacted by another athletes body in one way or another, leaving them severely hurt for weeks or months and sometimes forever. For soccer the impacts are mostly from the soccer-ball itself, but even those impacts can be dangerous mainly when the impact is directed at their heads. Even though athletes can train and avoid major hits to their bodies, it would be naive to think that these problems can be solved in such a simple manner. “Chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) is the term used to describe brain degeneration likely caused by repeated head traumas” (“Chronic traumatic encephalopathy”, 2016). “It’s also caused by run-in-the-mill hits that happen dozens of times a game” (“Adam Ruins Everything”, 2016). This happens mostly in impact sports specially in football. “The brain is bound by the same laws of physics as everything else and thus will move until something stops it, namely, the skull, this is called a concussion. And even a minor one, has a serious affect on your brainbox” (“Dnews”, 2016). Every tackle and uncontrolled fall can potentially cause CTE or mTBI since teenagers are more likely to brush these small hits off and continue with their day without consulting any professional help.


ps not complete
